---
title: "Consideration of operational intricacies and potential disruptions"
description: ‎
---
# Successfully integrating innovative methods into the handling of biomass disposal or diversion within industrial settings requires a meticulous consideration of operational intricacies and potential disruptions.

Our current landscape concerning biomass accumulation affords an abundance of excess materials, all with unique characteristics and employed disposal or diversion strategies. Ongoing efforts to identify alternative uses for these materials is creating an industry of exploration and discovery, with significant strides already made and further breakthroughs likely on the horizon. While predictions and conceivable developments on the operational side enter our purview, other difficulties on the supply side still loom in the distance. Foundational economic factors will play a significant role as the biomanufacturing industry matures, requiring increased analysis and surveillance of material input conditions. Supply and demand form a key basis for any commodity, and as economies of scale evolve out of this industry, input cost, demand, sustainability, current and future availability will require continued and consistent evaluation. The Central Valley hosts several cautionary tales involving shifting global agriculture markets concerning these economic factors, which inevitably led to significant disruptions in production and processing potential. Exercising caution when making assumptions about future biomass input availability is advisable. Whether regional, country-wide, or multinational in scale, questions and conversations around absolute or comparative advantages will also arise. It is said that necessity is the mother of all invention, and it would be prudent to temper the novelty that occurs concomitantly with invention with sober appraisals of the economic variables intrinsically bound to the biomanufacturing industry moving forward. 

Ecosystem: Presentation by Dr. Zheng Huang Interview with Dr. Katy Christiansen
